Hello and first off congratulations on
completing this first section of the
course. Some things may have been new,
some things may have been familiar but
still you powered through it and you got
to the end and that is a great
accomplishment because that sets you up
for a great start into the world of R
programming. So go ahead and give
yourself a pat on the back for that and
so what do we have today? Well today, we'll
have a homework exercise an exercise
that will allow us to consolidate all of
the knowledge that we learned in this
section and moreover on top of all that
knowledge we will overlay some
statistics and we'll talk about the law
of large numbers and we'll talk about
the normal distribution and why is that?
Well that's because as a data scientist
working in R or a data analyst working
on R, inevitably you're going to have to
know how to leverage the power of R to
assess represent a portray statistical
concepts, so to apply statistical
concepts to your work and this is going
to be a great first step for us in that
direction. So I'm pretty excited to share
this exercise a few let's get straight
into it. So what is the law of large
numbers?
Well without further a do this is the law
of large numbers, it might seem a bit
complicated when it's written down but
in reality it's very simple and in fact
it is so easy and yet so simple that it
is one of my favorite concepts in fact
it's one of my favorite concepts in life.
I apply the law of large numbers
everywhere where I can and you will see
why just a second when we go through it
and understand what exactly this means.
Alright so to understand the law of
large numbers, what we have to first take
into account is the scenario the
environment that this law is of being
presented to us in and that scenario is
let's imagine that we have a sample that
we are observing and we're measuring
some value in that sample. A good example
is coin tosses, so let's say we have
endpoint tosses that's what this is
better over here and stands for and
let's say it's a hundred coin tosses we
are observing a hundred coin tosses and
the value that we're measuring is
whether each
when is heads or tails so let's say one
is heads and 0 is tails then this X is
that measured value so x is 1 if it's
heads x is 0 if its tail's and what this
X with the index and and this dash at
the top means is it means we're taking
the average of X across the sample of n,
so we did a hundred coin tosses and we
measured how many heads they are and we
average that out across the whole sample
so maybe we had like 43 heads and we
divided that by hundred so basically
this X this value would be 0.43, So what
is on the right over here
well on the right we've got the expected
value of x theoretical value of x
or if you're selecting a sample from a
population then this would be the exit
the value of x in the population but we
go long go into that right now let's
just talk about the coin tosses example
for now. So we know that theoretically
when you toss a coin head is if it's a
fair coin of course the probability of
getting heads fifty percent probability
of getting kelsey is 50 cent,
so that means out of a hundred coin
tosses they expected number of heads is
50. So the expected value of x is 0.5
and so what this whole or presents now
now we can assess it or understand it is
that when n is approaching infinity so
as n grows as a sample size grows you're
actually measured value converges to the
expected value of that measurement. So
let's say that again
the average of the actually measured
value across just sample converges to
the expected value of that measurement
when N approaches infinity so as your
sample growth and that is very important
to understand and the best way to
actually understand it is to look at a
specific example. Let's have a look so
let's say we have 10 coin tosses so if
you could cause a toss a coin 7, 10 times
you might get seven heads and 3 tails
that's not out of the no, that's totally you
can totally imagine that happening and
happens all the time so in that case you
get a 70 to
30 which is quite far away from 50 to 50
right, now if you toss a coin a hundred
times.
Yes a few coin tosses might be out of
the nor but you might get like
something 52-48 maybe you might get 43
and 57 something that and here in this
case you for it it's 52-percent 40 upset
already much closer to 50 50 if you toss
a coin a thousand times you might get
502 -598 or somewhere thereabouts and now
you're getting even closer to 50 50 so
as you can see as the number of coin
toss increases your getting closer and
closer and closer to that theoretical
50 to 50 and that is exactly what the law of
large numbers says and as you can see
it's a very intuitive concept and it's
just written in mathematical terms and
it has that mathematical foundation to
it.
Alright so, that is the law of large
numbers now what else we're going to
need is we're going to need the normal
distribution, so let's have a look at the
normal distribution. Now previously in
this section we had a tutorial where we
were generating random numbers using the
R norm function well the arm
function uses the normal distribution
and we already kind of good and
acquainted with it.
So what is exactly the normal
distribution and if you've already
encountered the normal distribution or
you're very comfortable with that is
fantastic but we'll just quickly revise
a couple of concepts that we're going to
be using in this exercise. So the normal
distribution looks like this and what is
this curve showing us.
So we won't even
bother with the y axis because the
actual integrated numbers are already
represented here on the chart and all
it's saying is that that function R
norm that we're using journey and number
well remember that it generates a number
somewhere around 0 so it could have been
like a bit further away from there could
be between minus 1 and 1 minus 2 into so
but as we got further away from zero
the likelihood of a number being
generated there was lower and lower and
lower all the time. So that is exactly
what this bell curve is representing
it's telling us that once for
specifically for that function that
function generates a number and
likelihood of the probability of that
number of being in this
interval between 0 and 1 in this case is
1 Sigma but let's just imagine that
Sigma is equal to one so the likelihood
of the number that's generated being
between 0 and 1 is 34.1 percent.  The
likelihood of it being between minus 1 and 0
is that you want 34.1 percent so basically
you have the probabilities here that any
number you generate with that R norm
function falls inside one of these
segments and that's all it's about so
this is how the normal distribution work
so if you take a thousand normally
distributed variables with a mean of
zero so this is the mean where the
middle of the bell curve is and also
Sigma is your standard deviation so if
you take a thousand normally distributed
variables random normally distributed
variables that have a mean of zero and a
standard deviation of one then they will
fall like this into the interval between
like- million to a million, so this is
how it will look and most of them will
be between minus 1 and 1 some will be
over here some will be here and as you
get for the way it gets less and less
and less. So that's how the normal
distribution works
what are we going to use the normal
distribution for and how is this going
to be combined with the law of Legends.
Well what are we going to do in this
tutorial in this exercise is we're going
to test the law of large numbers
how cool is that we're going to actually
assess whether the law of large numbers
is correct it if it holds in a one of
the specific examples that we're going
to be looking at here is the
distribution as you can see it's quite a
statistical approach that we're taking
quite a statistical exercise but we're
going to be using R to prove that the
law of large numbers hold to confirm
that the law of large numbers holds. So
pretty exciting isn't it let's get
straight to the exercise so the exercise
is test the law of large numbers for
and random normally distributed numbers
with mean of zero and standard deviation
equal to 1 and to do that how do you do
that well create an R script that will
count how many of these numbers fall
between minus 1 and 1 and divide by the
total quantity of n. Ok let that sink
and you know that the expected value of
x is 68.2 percent, now let's see how do
we know that well we're trying to
measure how many of our randomly
generated numbers will fall between
minus 1 and 1
well we know that that is these two
areas of the normal distribution and if
you add these two up 34.1 % + 34 .1%
you'll get 68.2 percent, so that is where
the 68 42-percent come from
so you know that theoretically out of
these numbers that you generate which
are there any of them 68.2 percent of
them should fall into that interval
minus 1 to 1. Now what we need to do is
check to test the law of large numbers
what we need to do is check that the
mean of Xn so the measured value of
the actual values so the mean of the
actual measured value across your sample
approaches the expected value which is
over here as you rerun your script while
increasing and so you can imagine n has
to be and input parameter that you can
input into your script at the very top
and you can change it so you might start
with n equal to hundred and you want to
see what the mean will be then you might
want to change into a thousand and you
want to see what I mean will be then
change it to 10,000 and so on and you
want to test that the law of large
numbers holds and what that means is as
you will increase and this mean
so the actual measurement mean of the
actual measurement will be approaching
the expected value closer and closer and
closer. So there you go that's a fun
exercise and that's what we're going to
be doing I hope this all makes sense
it's going to be pretty exciting and if
you are confident that you can give us a
goal right now give us a shot then stop
this video and go for it
go ahead and attempt to create the
script and it requires all the knowledge
that we learned in this section so
you'll have a loop will have an if
statement and so on,
if you'd like to stick around and I 'm
going to give you a hit now so you could
attempt this and come back and check out
the hint if you need some guidance but
what I want to give you
it is because there's one thing that we
didn't actually talk about in this
section that you will need so it's kind
of an intuitive thing but I  would like
to share it with you just to make sure
that you have all the knowledge required
for this exercise so here we go here's a
hint hint number one actually is going
to be to him so we'll start with hint
number one in number one
so you're going to have to have a or
you're going to need a loop which looks
like this well there's many ways to
solve this challenge but in my
solution. I have a loop which looks like
this and the thing that we did not
actually cover in this section is how to
generate multiple normally distributed
random variables and in that case you
need to use Rnorm a hundred or ten
thousand or ten thousand or whatever
number of variables you need so is
that's why I say it's kind of intuitive
because basically when you put one in
here you get one variable if you say
Rnorm a hundred you'll get a vector of a
hundred of these variables and then at
some point once you finish the code you
can just replace hundred everywhere in
your code or a thousand everything your
code with the number and then put a
parameter up over here and which you can
then quickly change into rerun this
script, so this is what the loop is going
to look like they're going to be the
main loop and the other thing I wanted
to mention here is for those of you
coming from a background in other
programming languages so this took me
quite a some time to get my head around
is that I in this case so in other
programming languages I is basically a
counter variable like it goes 1 2 3 4 5
and then you use start from 00 105
and then you use I to access elements of
the array well in our in this way when
you write your loop like this what
happens is I becomes the variable itself
so it's not and just an index it's
actually loop cycling through the
random number of variables that you're
going to generate, so in this case that
they generate variable 75, 43 and so on.
So then i will be equal to seven the
next time I will be equal to five and I
will be equal to 43 so basically don't
try to use I as an index in this cycle
in the loop.
I is the variable itself so that's
that's kind of just for people who are
coming from other programming background
because well this took me awhile to get
used to,
alright so there goes that was hint
number one now you can confidently go
and attempt this exercise because you
have all of the knowledge that is
required for it and finally if you still
have trouble
not a worry it is the first exercise and
you are just learning R it's all ok we
will you will get better and better as
we go through the course because that's
that's what I say that learning
programming language solve and practice so
that's why I have hit number two
prepared for you
so this is in number two and number two
is a fill in the blanks exercise so this
is how my solution looks like once again
they can be multiple ways to solve this
challenge
this is what mine looks like I've were
blanked out some of the things some of
the key elements of the code so go ahead
and copy this into your R studio
and just fill in these blank using the
knowledge that you developed in this
course, so go back to tutorial on loops
on if on variables and so on and try to
fill in the gaps here to complete this
code and then give it a go try running
it and try finishing the challenge and
seeing what happens as you increase and
over here and that's it so this is the
challenge this is the exercise of best
of luck with it and at the very end of
the course there will be a section with
the solutions to homework exercises, so
once you've done
join me in that tutorial for this
specific exercise where we will go
through a challenge and will actually
test the law of large numbers together
and that's it for today I look forward
to seeing you next time
until then, happy coding!